.TH XScreenSaver 1 "13-aug-92" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
twinkle - crazy moving stars
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twinkle
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-points \fIinteger\fP] [\-tails \fIinteger\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItwinkle\fP plots stars moving according to various forcefields
(simple 2D equations).
.SH WARNING!
This screensaver may be \fIdangerous\fP for your eyes.
Please don't watch it for too long!
.SH OPTIONS
.I twinkle
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-points \fIinteger\fP
The number of stars plotted (default 300).
.TP 8
.B \-tails \fIinteger\fP
The length of the tail of each star (default 5).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH BUGS
The stars are sometimes a bit uncertain about what the are doing, and their
change in movement a bit jerky.  Also, the jerks when new forcefield comes on
are sometimes too close to each other.

We could solve this by adding a dampened-walk acceleration to make the velocity
change more smoothly.  And we could ensure forcefields only come on and off at
regularish intervals.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) Joey.  Freely distributable under LGPL for good purposes only!
.SH AUTHOR
Paul "Joey" Clark <pclark@cs.bris.ac.uk> 10-Oct-00
